**prime Test-Method Specification REP**

Revision 1.0.0

Jul 2020

[[_TOC_]]

## REP for DffRead

This **REP** is intended to describe the DffRead Prime TestMethod.

In this document, you will find the below sections:

  - **Methodology** – A detailed description of this TestMethod intention and purpose

  - **Parameters** – A table describes each instance parameter (Name, Type, Default, Required?)

  - **Datalog output** – A detailed description of what is datalogged by this TestMethod

  - **Custom User Code hooks** – A list of functions available to the user code to override

  - **TPL Samples** – Examples of how to use this TestMethod in a TPL file

  - **Exit Ports** - A table describes each exit port

  - **Additional Dependencies** – More to consider for this TestMethod to operate

  - **Version tracking** – With author names, so you always have a name to address

  - **Acronyms** - Definition of acronyms used in this document 

## Methodology

The DffRead test method provides capability to populate DFF data for current DUT.

During the unit testing life cycle, ad the unit moved from socket to socket (like: SORT-\>CLASS-\>PPV-\>etc), selected data from each socket is collected as passed on to the next socket down the flow. This data is stored in DFF DB and retrieved prior to units testing so that the unit history data from  previous sockets will be available upon executing in current socket.

The DFF data for current DUT may come from 3 sources:

1.  MTL file – This xml file specifies various DFF tokens definitions and in specific the default value for different DFF tokens. DFFRead will use this default values as the base line when populating the DFF data for current DUT.

2.  UBE file – This text file is generated by the station controller prior to Lot testing (lot hold multiple devices to test). The file contains DFF data for all the devices under test in the lot, and for each device it includes packet level data (i.e. per visual ID) and unit level data (i.e. per ULT).

3.  SCVars.SC\_DFF\_INFO uservar – In some testing scenarios, this uservar is being populated by the station controller. Basically, it holds DFF data in the same format as the UBE file, only flatten to a single line.

In order to be able to access DFF data, TP most include an instance of DffRead in its MAIN flow. In  addition, as DffRead requires the active die ids of the current DUT, the DffRead instance must reside in the flow **after** the instance of UltDecode (see UltDecode REP for more details on this test method).

Upon execution, DffRead test method will use the die id’s, retrieved by UltDecode, in order to populate the relevant DFF data, of both package & unit level, for the current DUT. The test method will get the decoded ult information from BusinessLogic.FuseLogicCollection.UltHandle, which it includes setting into the DffService. The DFF data will be retrieved from the various sources described above and in the order of description. This means that for the user specified OpType (given by instance parameter *ReadOpType*) and relevant die id’s, DffRead will first get the DFF token default value from MTL file. Then, if the same token appears in UBE file, the value will be updated to the UBE file value. And last, if the same token appears in SC\_DFF\_INFO  uservar, the value will be updated to the uservar value.
Enabled_Modules Parameter:

The test template parameter “EnabledModules” is designed to be configurable for module owners and test program usage model. This parameter works in conjunction with each token’s module element within the XML config file.

•       ALLKILL: denotes that all tokens regardless of the module name will be set to kill mode (port out as a failing instance).

•       NONKILL: denotes that all tokens regardless of the module name will be set to non-kill mode (failures are still captured but does not port out as a failing instance).

•       <module_name>: a test program module name. This will enable only this module to be in kill mode.

•       <!module_name>: a test program module name. This will enable only this module to be in non kill mode.

## Test Instance Parameters

The table below lists and describes the test instance parameters supported by the DffRead test method

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th><strong>Parameter Name</strong></th>
<th><strong>Required?</strong></th>
<th><strong>Type</strong></th>
<th><strong>Values</strong></th>
<th><strong>Comments</strong></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td>EnabledModules</td>
<td>No</td>
<td>String</td>
<td>Empty by default</td>
<td><p>List of modules targeted for DFF validation. Options available [ALLKILL, NONKILL, <module_name>, <!module_name]. Comma separated.</p>
<p>Usage examples mention above</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>LogIndividualTokens</td>
<td>No</td>
<td>String</td>
<td>DISABLED by default</td>
<td><p>Enable DFF Individual Tokens Format PrintOut in Datalog. Options available [DISABLED, ENABLED].</p>
<p>Usage examples mention above</p></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>IsInlineDff</td>
<td>No</td>
<td>String</td>
<td>False by default</td>
<td><p>Denotes whether dff calls are inline. Default is DISABLED.</p>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

**Notes:**

  - 
## Datalog output

The test method does not perform any datalog.

## Custom User Code Hooks

Here is the list of functions available to the user code to override.

\<TBD\>

## TPL Samples

Here are a few test instance examples using the DffRead test method

TPL Sample1:  

```python
Import PrimeDffReadTestMethod.xml;

Test PrimeDffReadTestMethod PrimeDffRead
{
   ReadOpType = “PBIC_S1”;
}
```
## Exit Ports

The DffRead test method supports the following exit ports:

| **Exit Port** | **Condition** | **Description**                                 |
| ------------- | ------------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
| **-2**        | ***Alarm***   | Any alarm condition                             |
| **-1**        | ***Error***   | Any software condition error                    |
| **0**         | ***Fail***    | Failed to populate the DFF data for current DUT |
| **1**         | ***Pass***    | The DFF data for current DUT is ready for use   |

## Additional Dependencies

More dependencies to consider for this TestMethod to well operate:

DffRead test method is utilizing Prime DffService, so the service must
be up and running prior to using this test method.

## Version tracking


| **Date**       | **Version** | **Author**   | **Ticket Related**   | **Comments**               |
| -------------- | ----------- | ------------ | -------------------- | -------------------------- |
| Feb 24th, 2023 | 12.0.0      | yeongjui     | #35703               | shifting Ult check with Ube(DffService.SetUltDataPerDieId) from FuseReadMaskUltDecode/UltDecoder to DffRead, current functionality at BusinessLogic's UltDecoderBasic.|
| Jun 17th, 2020 | 1.0.0       | Itamar Cohen |                      | Adding DffRead test method to Prime |
|                |             |              |                                     |

## Acronyms

Definition of acronyms used in this document:

  - **REP**: P**r**ime T**e**st-Method S**p**ecification
  - **HDMT**: **H**igh **D**ensity **M**odular **T**ester
  - **TPL**: **T**est **P**rogramming **L**anguage
  - **TOS**: **T**est **O**perating **S**ystem
  - **DFF**: **D**ata **F**eed **F**orward
  - **DUT: D**evice **U**nder **T**est